Hello everyone, and welcome to
the Python debugger lecture.
So you've probably used a variety of print statements
to find errors in your code, but a better way of doing this
is by using Python's built-in debugger module,
and it's known as PDB.
So we can go ahead and say, import pdb, python debugger.
So, the Python debugger module implements,
basically, an interactive debugging environment
for Python programmes.
And it includes features to allow you
to pause your programmes, look at the values of variables,
and watch programme execution, step by step.
That way, you can understand what your programme
is actually doing, and then you can find bugs in the logic.
Sometimes this is a bit difficult to show,
because it's basically gonna require me
to put an error into the code on purpose,
but I'll use a simple example, that hopefully illustrates
just how powerful the Python debugger module is.
It's something that's sometimes not taught
to beginners at all, but it's a really powerful tool to have
at your side, whenever you need it.
So let's go ahead and try to implement it
by creating a bug on purpose.
So what I'm gonna do is, I'm gonna go just make a list here.
I'll just say x is equal to one, three, four.
We'll say y is equal to two.
And z is equal to three.
Then I'm gonna set result equal to y plus z,
so that makes sense.
I will print result, and then, what I'm gonna try to do is,
make another variable called result2,
that is y plus x.
Now note here, I'm trying to add an integer to a list,
which doesn't make sense.
But I'm gonna assume it worked,
keep going, and print result2.
So what do I get here?
I get type error, unsupported operand type
for plus int and list.
Okay, that's actually pretty clear.
But in a larger code base, it may not be clear
what's actually going on.
So what you can actually do is,
with the Python debugger, set a trace.
So what that would look like is,
you'd come to the line where you saw your error,
and say pdb dot set underscore trace, close parentheses.
And now, let's take a look at what happens
when we run this module,
or, excuse me, this cell.
So, notice, once the code runs up to where
it hits that Python debug set trace,
now I have an interactive debugging environment.
And I can ask for values of variables,
to see what's going on.
So for instance, if I wanted to check what x was,
I could hit x, enter,
and it tells me that x is the list one, three, four.
I could then check what y is, I could then check what z is.
I can even do operations here.
I can say, hey, what is y plus z, and I'll output five.
So it actually tells me what's going on,
and I can do whatever operations I want,
since that's a list, so y to the power of two.
It'll tell me an error if I try to do something
that will pass in, err, throw an exception,
but it will let me continue going on with the debugger.
And then, if I finally figure out what the problem is,
so, let's say, I was trying to do y plus x
but it wasn't working, so I said,
y plus...
y plus x, and it outputted this error,
and I say okay, that's strange, well what is x?
And I figure out, oh, x is a list, now I have my error.
Once I found it, I can then press q,
and it will quit for me, alright.
So that's just a pretty basic example.
It's a little bit strange to use it in jupyter notebook,
but it still works well for this simple example.
For more general debugging purposes,
and actually more techniques,
you can go ahead and check out the jupyter notebook here.
We break it down a little bit more,
what's actually going on.
And there's also a link here to the official documentation,
which just give you more general advice
on debugging techniques.
But the key here is almost always just setting this trace to
right before where you think the error is occurring.
And then, when you run your code,
use the debugger interactive environment there
to try to find the source of your error.
Okay, so that's it as far as the Python debugger.
Remember, you have to say import pdb,
and then say, pdb dot set trace,
in order to start up this interactive debugging environment.
Alright, thanks, everyone!
And I will see you at the next lecture.